---
layout: post
title: "Federated Learning: Strategies for Improving Communication Efficiency"
date: "2019-03-20 Wed 12:00 PM"
published: false
---

## Summary
Reference: Konecny2016
This paper addresses the challenges rised on federated learning.

Fedrated Learning is to train a shared global model from a fedration of
participating devices with coordination of a central server. It removes the need
of storing data in the cloud. The authors say federated learning is different
from conventional distributed machine learning because of ambiguity (such as
large number of clients, no i.i.d. data, asymmetric network connections).

There are 4 steps in federated learning.

1. A subset of existing clients is selected, each of which downloads the current
   model.
2. Each client in the subset computes an updated model based on their local
   data.
3. The model updates are sent from the selected clients to the server.
4. The server aggregates these models (typically by averaging) to construct an
   improved global model.

In this paper, the authors introduce 2 types of update for efficient
communication cost in federated learning.

1. Sturctured updates - learn an update from the restricted space that can be
   parametrized using a small number of variables.
2. Sketched updates - learn a full model update, then compress it before sending
   it to the server.

Experiments were done on both convolutional and recurrent neural networks.

## Follow-up
Florian Hartmann wrote a blog post about [federated learning][Florian2018].
Federated learning can be used on eveyrthing based on gradient descent (linear
regression, logistic regression, neural networks, linear support vector machines).
He also mentions other models such as k-means, PCA, etc. where federated learning
is possible.

From the privacy preserving perspective, the attackers still can analyze the
weights to reveal some information. It's still possible to reconstruct some data
points. The blog points to use differential privacy to overcome this issue.
There are also other cryptographic techniques to anonymize the updates
submitting users. The idea is to read the updates of individuals only when
enough users submitted the updates.

[Florian2018]: https://florian.github.io/federated-learning/
